New section on deployment modes (#87)
ietf-wg-scone/appman: draft-ietf-scone-applicability-manageability.md

Author: Actually I guess this is now all covered by my new section and could be removed in we merge this in. Maybe it would be good to change the order of the section then.

```suggestion
The different deployment options are further discussed in the previous section.
```

Author: I don't know why it doesn't show the diff correctly but I'm proposing that everything after "Before applying rate.." could be removed.

makes this correlation possible, aligning with the monitoring
guidance in {{Section 7.2 of I-D.ietf-scone-protocol}}.

## Deployment Options

SCONE provides explicit signaling of throughput advice. SCONE is intended as an alternative

> to in-network rate limiting enabling more dynamic network load management and better quality of experience

Reviewer: This is not meant only for dynamic network load management , as mentioned in some other section of the doc it can also be used to enable "subscriber data plans" ( for that matter this is the most sought after user-case for CSPs at present). I think we should ensure that this section is consistent with use-case specified  in section "Determining Throughput Constraints" i.e Subscriber Policies and Data Plans, Application-Specific Policies, Capacity and Load Management, Dynamic Network Conditions.

Author: I have an open issue about the points in the "Determining Throughput Constraints" section as I don't think these are all quite right. However, having different limits for different subscriptions is in the end just a way to manage load. I think it's better to stay high level here in this section focusing on the technology impact for an operator when deciding about the deployment mode and not the economics, because they are kind of the same no matter with mode is selected.

Reviewer: No, I dont agree.  Different limits for different subscriptions does not always mean managing the load, it is due to CSPs business logic also. Lets not change the base use-cases which is one of the main motivations for CSPs to use SCONE. Lets not remove something which was added to help CSPs understand how SCONE can be useful to them and susbcriber plan based bit-rate is one of the important use-case

Reviewer 2: I've suggested a change that should address both concerns here.

> SCONE provides explicit signaling of throughput advice. SCONE is intended as an alternative
> to in-network rate limiting enabling more dynamic network load management and better quality of experience

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SCONE provides explicit signaling of throughput advice. SCONE is an alternative to using in-network rate limiting for load management or enforcement of subscription policies, providing better quality of experience
```

> for the application user. Note that the use of SCONE throughput advise signaling can also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for application users. Note that the use of SCONE throughput advice signaling can also
```

provide these benefits to networks that are not applying rate limiting. This leads to three
different deployment options for operators:

Signaling-only mode:

> : Opertors that do not enforce any rate limits might provide SCONE throughput advice to

Reviewer: operator -> CSP or whatever is used in the doc everywhere.

Author: No, we don't use the abbreviation CSP anywhere. we use once in the first sentence "telecommunications service provider" but I have an PR open for that. Otherwise the whole document uses the term "network operator" or just "operator"

Reviewer: Ok whatever we agree to lets use that.

> : Opertors that do not enforce any rate limits might provide SCONE throughput advice to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Operators that do not enforce any rate limits might provide SCONE throughput advice to
```

  support the application with a choice of a stable rate below the capacity limit
  leading to a more smooth user experience. This operation mode does not require

>   the deployment of rate limits or any conformance measurements.

Reviewer: I would extend this to add that CSPs can use this mode to support different bit-rates based on subscriber data plans.

Author: This is true for all modes.

Dynamic rate enforcement mode:
: Operators that use rate limits might disable rate enforcement for scone flows and only
  enable it dynamically if a SCONE flow is detected to not apply the limit itself.
  This mode saves network processing and buffer resources for compliant flows but requires
  conformance measurements as described in the next section.

> Static rate enforcement mode:

Reviewer: I am not sure we should add this as objective is SCONE to replace the throttler. And this idea that throttler will be applied on the rate above the scone advised rates may not result in improved QoE as main drawback of throttler compared to self regulation is that throttler drops or delays the pkt w/o knowing about video delivery in the sense when more data is needed compared to when no data is needed ( bursty nature of video flows). Whole point of scone is to let app apply the rate limit instead of n/w throttler.

Author: This is an operator choice and we as vendor will offer this choice because that is the deployment mode with the minimal changes. We will argue for the other two options for sure but I think it actually a good deployment strategy for operators that might not be entirely convinced yet.

Yes, this will not give the full application benefits, but that's what I wrong. I'd be okay to add another sentence and say that this deployment option is not recommended or something.

Reviewer: I would remove this as this para does not serve any purpose.

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth mentioning this case, but we can make it even more clear that while possible, you will not get most of the benefits of SCONE. 
Maybe something like: 
"While the primary motivation of SCONE is to replace in-network rate limit enforcement, it is possible
for operators to enable SCONE in parallel to their existing enforcers. It should be noted that doing so will remove most of the positive effects that SCONE provides, both in terms of end-user QoE and for network simplifications. 
Throughput advice are intended to provide averages over at least 67 seconds, whereas typical rate-
limiting mechanisms operate on significantly shorter timescales.  An operator may attempt to mitigate issues that arise from the timescale mismatch by sending throughput advice that indicate rates that are lower than the enforced rates."
